feat: v0.37.0 release notes (#2419)
grafana/k6: release notes/v0.37.0.md

> k6 v0.37.0 is here! 🎉 Mainly it contains fixes and ongoing efforts with refactoring, but it's just because we are preparing some incredible things in upcoming releases!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
k6 v0.37.0 is here! 🎉 Mainly it contains fixes and ongoing efforts with refactoring, ~~but it's just because we are preparing some incredible things in upcoming releases!~~
```
I'm not sure we want to do this promise. :smile:

Reviewer 2: I prefer not to make promises :)

Author: Okay :+1:

**Docs**: [Using file output](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#file)

### Added experimental basic event loops ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882))

We added the basic functionality of the JavaScript event loops ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228) and [#2373](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2373)). This is a first step that is limited by a `setTimeout` method as an example. We advise avoiding using it in production code. But for sure, we'll continue to work on extending that feature in the next k6's releases.

If you are curious and can't wait to try it, there is a particular `k6/experimental` module.

```js
import {setTimeout} from "k6/experimental";

export default () => {
    setTimeout(()=> {console.log("say hi to event loops!")}, 200);
}
```

## Enhancements and UX improvements

- We continued work on the source map feature: add samples ([#2339](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2339)) and improve loading and parsing ([#2355](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2355)).
- Updated installation from source instructions ([#2359](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2359)). Thanks, @[karitham](https://github.com/Karitham), for making the change.

> - We migrated our docker repository to the `grafana/k6` ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We migrated our docker repository to the [grafana/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/k6) ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).
```

> - Introduced a go-based thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduced a Go-based thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)).
```

> - Enabled more TC39 tests: optional-chaining ([#2338](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2338)) and async ([#2396](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2396)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enabled more TC39 tests: [optional-chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) ([#2338](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2338)) and async ([#2396](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2396)).
```

## Bugs fixed!

> - Prevent panic in `check` if a second argument isn't provided ([#2387](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2387)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prevent panic in [check](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6/check-val-sets-tags) if a second argument isn't provided ([#2387](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2387)).
```

> - `http.head` stopped taking a body as a second argument ([#2402](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2402)). A signature looks like how it was before v0.36.0 `http.head(url, [params])`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [http.head]() stopped taking a body as a second argument ([#2402](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2402)). A signature looks like how it was before v0.36.0 `http.head(url, [params])`.
```
We should add the documentation and link here

> - Fixed `options.scenarios`'s JSON marshaling ([#2392](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2392)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed [options.scenarios's](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#scenarios) JSON marshaling ([#2392](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2392)).
```

> - Prevent panic in `http.batch` if pass no arguments (https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2415).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prevent panic in [http.batch](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/batch-requests) if pass no arguments (https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2415).
```

## Internals

> - We updated our CI to make a developer experience better. Dependency and liter checks run only for pull requests ([#2403](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2403)). We also migrated to a native `golangci-lint` GitHub action. Also bumped the windows version ([#2388](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2388)).

Reviewer 3: `liter checks` :wastebasket: :eyes:  :smile:

- Updated goja dependency ([#2350](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2350)).
- The k6's GRPC module was refactored in order to use the new k6's modules API ([#2365](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2365)) and marked headers parameter as deprecated ([#2370](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2370)).
- This release also contains a bunch of the refactoring PRs that fix linters errors ([#2334](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2334), [#2331](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2331) and [#2341](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2341)), remove global variables' usage ([#2336](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2336), [#2358](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2358), [#2353](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2353) and [#2357](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2357)) and remove unnecessary dependency ([#2313](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2313)) which makes our codebase more consistent and maintainable.
- Switched `envconfig` to a fork ([#2337](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2337)) in order to abstract OS package and improve testability.

> - In order to finalize migration to our new API for JS modules, we completely deprecated `common.Bind()` ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376) and [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)).

Reviewer: I think we should put a bit more emphasis on this, especially if we really plan to drop it in v0.38.0. Every extension that isn't implementing the API will get the warning message, here is an example from `xk6-sql` with master:

```
WARN[0000] Module 'k6/x/sql' is using deprecated APIs that will be removed in k6 v0.38.0, for more details on how to update it see https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension
```

I think we should add at least mention what, why and how to fix it, essentially rewriting the same thing we already have in the warning.

Author: :ok_hand: Good point, I'll move it out of the bullets section

Author: Applied in 3f2b9d2

> - Switched `envconfig` to a fork ([#2337](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2337)) in order to abstract OS package and improve testability.

Author: @na-- you marked the #2337 with a breaking change, but I'm not sure if I got why, could you please help me and clarify it :thinking:

Reviewer 4: Hmm not sure why I did that :confused: Maybe because the original `envconfig` would slurp up unprefixed variables as well, but that shouldn't be a problem anymore since we stopped using prefix in k6? :confused: If @MStoykov doesn't think there are breaking changes in that PR, feel free to remove the label

Reviewer 2: I specifically wanted to not change anything -so there should be no breaking changes AFAIK.

 Looking at the envconfig changes (in the vendor directory) it only includes my changes (which are backwards compatible) and some formatting fixes.

k6 v0.37.0 is here! 🎉 Mainly it contains fixes and ongoing efforts with refactoring.

## New Features!

### Added an option to output k6 logs to a file through --log-output ([#2285](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2285))

This is on top of the already supported options for sending logs to stdout/stderr and to [Grafana Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/). This new feature speaks for itself with simple usage examples:

```sh
k6 run --log-output file=./k6.log --logformat json ./examples/stages.js
```

And one more with a defined minimal log level:

```sh
k6 run --log-output file=./k6.log,level=info --logformat json ./examples/stages.js
```

Thanks, @[alyakimenko](https://github.com/alyakimenko) for the contribution!

**Docs**: [Using file output](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#file)

### Added experimental basic event loop ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882))

> We added basic event loop functionality ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228) and [#2373](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2373)). This is a first step and currently isn't used by anything, but is now available to extensions ([an example](https://github.com/MStoykov/xk6-events)). In following releases this will be used by k6 and will mean that some APIs will start having callbacks or return Promises. But first, it's likely that it will be used in some experimental extensions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We added basic event loop support in k6 ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228) and [#2373](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2373)) :tada: 

This was just the first step and isn't used by any of the existing k6 JS APIs yet, for now it is only available to [xk6 extensions](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/what-are-k6-extensions/) like [this one](https://github.com/MStoykov/xk6-events) that adds support for `setTimeout()`, `setInterval()`, `clearTimeout()` and `clearInterval()`. 

Expect to see more changes related to event loops in the next k6 releases, where event loops will start being used by some of the core k6 modules! For example, by improving some of the existing JavaScript APIs to have support for callbacks or return `Promise` values, so they can be used asynchronously. We expect this change will unlock a lot of previously difficult use cases (see [#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882)), though we'll likely iterate on these new APIs as experimental extensions for a while, to stabilize them before we merge them into the core.
```

> If you are an extension developer, please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the current Go API may change.

Reviewer: for giving more emphasis

```suggestion
> :warning: If you are an extension developer, please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the current Go API may change.
```

or maybe could it be a text code block? :thinking:

If you are curious and can't wait to try it, there is a particular `k6/experimental` module.

```js
import {setTimeout} from "k6/experimental";

export default () => {
    setTimeout(()=> {console.log("say hi to event loops!")}, 200);
}
```

## Extensions

> `v0.37.0` finalizes ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376) and [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) the switching of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). The k6's GRPC module was refactored in order to use the new k6's modules API ([#2365](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2365)) and marked headers' parameter as deprecated ([#2370](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2370))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`v0.37.0` finalizes ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376) and [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) the switching of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension).
```
It could make sense to move this part into a dedicated point in the `Enhancements and UX improvements` section. Especially the `metadata` part is not related to the new API nor Extensions.

Author: Partly agree and to be honest, did that in 4c17e69c, the GRPC module refactoring is related to the section, so will keep it here.

> It's important to highlight that the old API (e.g. methods like `context.WithRuntime`, `common.Bind` and others [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) is deprecated and will be removed in the next k6 release (`v0.38.0`). For this release, every extension that isn't using the new API will get a warning message like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:warning: It's important to highlight that the old API (e.g. methods like `context.WithRuntime`, `common.Bind` and others [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) is deprecated and will be removed in the next k6 release (`v0.38.0`). For this release, every extension that isn't using the new API will get a warning message like this:
```

```

We did migrations for some xk6 extensions (see connected issues to the task [#2344](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2344)). The pull requests can serve as examples.

## Enhancements and UX improvements

- We continued work on the source map feature: add samples ([#2339](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2339)) and improve loading and parsing ([#2355](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2355)).
- Updated installation from source instructions ([#2359](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2359)). Thanks, @[karitham](https://github.com/Karitham), for making the change.
- We migrated our docker repository to the [grafana/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/k6) ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).
- Introduced a Go-based thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)).
- Enabled more TC39 tests: [optional-chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) ([#2338](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2338)) and async ([#2396](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2396)).

## Bugs fixed!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`k6 stats` https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2421
```
I guess, now that 2421 has been merged we have to add it

> - Introduced Go-based thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)).

Reviewer 4: Hmm this should probably be mentioned as a slight breaking change, right? We are validating thresholds a bit now, so some tests that previously "worked", or rather, silently failed, will now fail not so silently, right @oleiade?

Reviewer 4: Any suggestions how to phrase it then? Because "Introduced Go-based thresholds parsing" will mean absolutely nothing to the vast majority of k6 users. Normal users didn't even know thresholds were implemented with JS, that was an internal implementation detail that was never advertised, so "Go-based" is at best confusing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Introduced stricter thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)). Which then let k6 return an error message on thresholds that wouldn't have been evaluated correctly, instead of just silently ignoring them.
```

Given that in reality probably nobody cared about the fact it was in js - I would argue saying that it's "stricter" which is true is the most accurate. We might also add that this also makes it possible to give *any* feedback on the correctness of a threshold.

Reviewer 2: We might also want to document the threshold syntax in the docs ? WDYT @oleiade

k6 v0.37.0 is here! 🎉 Mainly it contains fixes and ongoing efforts with refactoring, but it's just because we are preparing some incredible things in upcoming releases!

## New Features!

### Added support for local files to --log-output ([#2285](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2285))

> Added file hook for a logger with the possibility to define a minimal reporting level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Added an option to output k6 logs to a file, on top of the already support stdout/stderr and loki instance.
```

"file hook" is some internal thing to logrus and will mean nothing to most users.

The feature speaks for itself with examples of usage:

```sh
k6 run --log-output file=./k6.log --logformat json ./examples/stages.js
```

> with a defined log level:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with a defined minimal log level:
```

```sh
k6 run --log-output file=./k6.log,level=info --logformat json ./examples/stages.js
```

Thanks, @[alyakimenko](https://github.com/alyakimenko) for the contribution!

**Docs**: [Using file output](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#file)

### Added experimental basic event loops ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882))

> We added the basic functionality of the JavaScript event loops ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228) and [#2373](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2373)). This is a first step that is limited by a `setTimeout` method as an example. We advise avoiding using it in production code. But for sure, we'll continue to work on extending that feature in the next k6's releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We added basic event loop functionality ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228) and [#2373](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2373)). This is a first step and currently isn't used by anything, but is now available to extensions. In following releases this will be used by k6 and will mean that some APIs will start having callbacks or return Promises. But first it's likely that it will be used in some experimental extensions. 

If you are an extension developer please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the API may change
```

We don't want to advertise the setTimeout or `k6/experimental` *at all*. It only exists so we can test the event loop - otherwise we would've had removed it.

> If you are curious and can't wait to try it, there is a particular `k6/experimental` module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> ```js
> import {setTimeout} from "k6/experimental";
> 
> export default () => {
>     setTimeout(()=> {console.log("say hi to event loops!")}, 200);
> }
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Extensions

`v0.37.0` finalizes ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376) and [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) the switching of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). As the last internal the GRPC module was refactored ([#2365](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2365)).

> It's important to highlight that an old API is deprecated and will be removed in the next k6's release (`v0.38.0`). Every extension that isn't implementing the API will get the warning message, like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's important to highlight that the old API is deprecated and will be removed in the next k6's release (`v0.38.0`). Every extension that isn't using that API will get a warning message, like:
```

```sh
WARN[0000] Module 'k6/x/sql' is using deprecated APIs that will be removed in k6 v0.38.0, for more details on how to update it see https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension
```

> We did migrations for some xk6 extensions (see connected issues to the task [#2344](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2344)). The pull requests can serve as examples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We did migrations for some xk6 extensions (see connected issues to the task [#2344](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2344)). The pull requests can serve as examples on how to transition your extension to the new API.
```

## Enhancements and UX improvements

- We continued work on the source map feature: add samples ([#2339](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2339)) and improve loading and parsing ([#2355](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2355)).
- Updated installation from source instructions ([#2359](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2359)). Thanks, @[karitham](https://github.com/Karitham), for making the change.

> - We migrated our docker repository to the [grafana/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/k6) ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).

Reviewer 2: This might deserve a small section as well to make people actually use it.

- Introduced a Go-based thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)).
- Enabled more TC39 tests: [optional-chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) ([#2338](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2338)) and async ([#2396](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2396)).

## Bugs fixed!

- Prevent panic in [check](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6/check-val-sets-tags) if a second argument isn't provided ([#2387](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2387)).

> - `http.head` stopped taking a body as a second argument ([#2402](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2402)). A signature looks like how it was before v0.36.0 `http.head(url, [params])`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `http.head` started taking a body as a second argument ([#2402](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2402)) by mistake in v0.36.0. It is now back to its old signature `http.head(url, [params])`.
```

- Fixed [options.scenarios'](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#scenarios) JSON marshaling ([#2392](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2392)).

> - Prevent panic in [http.batch](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/batch-requests) if pass no arguments (https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2415).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Prevent panic in [http.batch](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/batch-requests) if no arguments are passed (https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2415).
```

## Internals

> - We updated our CI to make a developer experience better. Dependency and linter checks run only for pull requests ([#2403](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2403)). We also migrated to a native `golangci-lint` GitHub action. Also bumped the windows version ([#2388](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2388)).

Reviewer 2: We stayed on the same version as the bump of the version broke the tests ;) 
```suggestion
- We updated our CI to make a developer experience better. Dependency and linter checks run only for pull requests ([#2403](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2403)). 
```

> - Updated goja dependency ([#2350](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2350)).

Reviewer 2: no certain we need to mention this - we usually do as it adds something but there has been nothing new at this point and the minor fixes are irrelevant to (probably) all users.

> k6 v0.37.0 is here! 🎉 Mainly it contains fixes and ongoing efforts with refactoring, but it's just because we are preparing some incredible things in upcoming releases!

Author: ```suggestion
k6 v0.37.0 is here! 🎉 Mainly it contains fixes and ongoing efforts with refactoring.
```

Reviewer 5: I find it good to build excitement about future important features, but I am missing the what!

## New Features!

### Added an option to output k6 logs to a file through --log-output ([#2285](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2285))

> This is on top of the supported stdout/stderr and loki instance.
> 
> The feature speaks for itself with examples of usage:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is on top of the already supported options for sending logs to stdout/stderr and to [Grafana Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/). This new feature speaks for itself with simple usage examples:
```

> ### Added support for local files to --log-output ([#2285](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2285))
> 
> Added an option to output k6 logs to a file, on top of the supported stdout/stderr and loki instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Added an option to output k6 logs to a file through --log-output ([#2285](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2285))

This is on top of the supported stdout/stderr and loki instance.
```

```sh
k6 run --log-output file=./k6.log --logformat json ./examples/stages.js
```

> with a defined minimal log level:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And one more with a defined minimal log level:
```

It sounds a bit off otherwise for me :(

```sh
k6 run --log-output file=./k6.log,level=info --logformat json ./examples/stages.js
```

Thanks, @[alyakimenko](https://github.com/alyakimenko) for the contribution!

**Docs**: [Using file output](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#file)

> ### Added experimental basic event loops ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Added experimental basic event loop ([#882](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/882))
```
It sounds more consistent with the first sentence, IMHO

> We added basic event loop functionality ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228) and [#2373](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2373)). This is a first step and currently isn't used by anything, but is now available to extensions. In following releases this will be used by k6 and will mean that some APIs will start having callbacks or return Promises. But first it's likely that it will be used in some experimental extensions.

Reviewer 5: Can we add a Javascript code example of what is possible now?

Author: We had one in the initial PR but later decided to remove it entirely since it's not ready for advertising https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2419#discussion_r822562236.

Reviewer 5: > but is now available to extensions.

vs

>  it's not ready for advertising

Found some discrepancies in these sentences

Author: Good point :thinking:

Maybe we should change like:

```
but is now available as an experimental extension
``

@MStoykov wdyt?

Reviewer 2: but it's not an extension - it is in the k6 core we will just be dropping it probably as soon as possible. We might have parts of it as extension, maybe even for the release - but not as part of k6.

Reviewer 6: Out of curiosity, should we be wrapping these "experimental" features with command-line feature-flags? 

> dropping it probably as soon as possible

Just for my personal clarification, do you mean "dropping" as delivering? or discarding?

Reviewer 2: > Out of curiosity, should we be wrapping these "experimental" features with command-line feature-flags?

That is an interesting idea but we have no such practice. So adding something like that for this would've likely meant that we wouldn't have shipped anything

> Just for my personal clarification, do you mean "dropping" as delivering? or discarding?

discarding

Author: What if I remove the "but is now available to extensions." ?

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/MStoykov/xk6-events here is the basic extension that I pulled out, code by @na--

Author: ```suggestion
We added basic event loop functionality ([#2228](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2228) and [#2373](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2373)). This is a first step and currently isn't used by anything, but is now available to extensions ([an example](https://github.com/MStoykov/xk6-events)). In following releases this will be used by k6 and will mean that some APIs will start having callbacks or return Promises. But first, it's likely that it will be used in some experimental extensions.
```

How about this?

Reviewer 2: seems okay to me

> If you are an extension developer please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the API may change

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If you are an extension developer please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the API may change.
```

> If you are an extension developer please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the API may change.

Reviewer: ks

> If you are an extension developer please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the API may change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are an extension developer please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that the API may change.
```

I think I wrote that and I added way more words than necessary :facepalm:

> If you are an extension developer please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the API may change.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you are an extension developer, please use it and give your feedback. But take into consideration that it's likely that the current Go API may change.
```

## Extensions

> `v0.37.0` finalizes ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376)) the switching of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension).  Lastly, the internal gRPC module was refactored ([#2365](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2365)).

Reviewer 2: I feel like the `gRPC` sentence is trying to say that this was the last thing to be done on this? I both don't think this is correct (as we will now need to remove the API) but even it it was I don't think it's necessary to be mentioned ... it makes no difference to the end users.
```suggestion
`v0.37.0` finalizes ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376)) the switching of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension).
```

Author: :thinking: Originally, I wanted to say that it's the last internal module was migrated and I belive it's important to mention because it can be important to the extensions developers as the example of the migration (even if we reference below to it again)

Author: ```suggestion
`v0.37.0` finalizes ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376)) the switching of our internal modules ([gRPC module](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2365)) to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension).
```

@MStoykov  How about that? :thinking:

> `v0.37.0` finalizes ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376) and [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) the switching of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). As the last internal the GRPC module was refactored ([#2365](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2365)).

Reviewer 6: > As the last internal the GRPC module was refactored

Possibly change to

> Lastly, the internal gRPC module was refactored

> `v0.37.0` finalizes ([#2376](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2376) and [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) the switching of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). As the last internal the GRPC module was refactored ([#2365](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2365)).

Reviewer 5: Can we be more specific about which APIs are now deprecated? Extension developers might want to know the specific APIs, without needing to visit the various linked issues.

Author: Exposed in https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2419/files#diff-70d6df1e5aea876b98647b1c02332746839792866310938aef7d371b79df8be0R35

> It's important to highlight that the old API (e.g. methods like `context.WithRuntime`, `common.Bind` and others [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) is deprecated and will be removed in the next k6's release (`v0.38.0`). Every extension that isn't using that API will get a warning message, like:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's important to highlight that the old API (e.g. methods like `context.WithRuntime`, `common.Bind` and others [#2384](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2384)) is deprecated and will be removed in the next k6 release (`v0.38.0`). For this release, every extension that isn't using the new API will get a warning message like this:
```

```sh

> WARN[0000] Module 'k6/x/sql' is using deprecated APIs that will be removed in k6 v0.38.0, for more details on how to update it see https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension

Reviewer 6: Is a single "minor" revision too soon to remove API?

Author: It's not the single "minor," at least once we already mentioned deprecation/removal in our release notes (previous release) and [the link](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension) declares that the actual announcement of the new API was in October 2021 so it seems reasonable to remove, no? :thinking: 

@codebien maybe you have something to add here?

Reviewer 2: The new API has been around for a bunch of versions actually and we have at least since the last version told users to use it instead of the old one.

While we don't want to break any user scripts we have more or less made no such promises for internal k6 APIs and this is more or less what we are breaking here. For the record we will likely completely break more or less anything doing with metrics at some point as well. Which in practice means all extensions. And while in general we do not try to break extensions on purpose, a lot of them touch clearly very internal APIs that should not have been exported probably to begin with. 

So for me "attracting developers" should come with a warning of "we will break the API to make everything better so beware"

```

We did migrations for some xk6 extensions (see connected issues to the task [#2344](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2344)). The pull requests can serve as examples on how to transition your extension to the new API.

## Docker Repository

> We migrated our docker hub's repository from `loadimpact/k6` to the [grafana/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/k6) ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
We migrated our Docker Hub's repository from `loadimpact/k6` to [grafana/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/k6) ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).
```

```sh

> docker run -i grafana/k6 run - <script.js

Reviewer 6: Should we change the `Dockerfile` to use the following?
```shell
ENTRYPOINT ["k6", "run"]
```
This would make the secondary "run" unnecessary...I feel like anyone running the Docker image would be doing local testing. Also...my personal preference is to always include the `--rm` to reduce Docker bloat.
```shell
docker run -i grafana/k6 --rm -<script.js
```

Reviewer 7: Agreed on suggesting `--rm`, but not sure about changing the entrypoint. The current way allows using other popular commands (`cloud`, `archive`, `version`, etc.), some of which may be cumbersome with Docker, but it would avoid having to specify `--entrypoint` every time. Plus I like that the same command after `docker run -i grafana/` can just be copy/pasted to work outside of Docker. :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: I agree that maybe it's good to change the command, but I believe that not here, but [in the docs](https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/blob/main/src/data/markdown/translated-guides/en/01%20Getting%20started/03%20Running%20k6.md?plain=1#L145) :smile: 

This place emphasizes the new repository, not the working example (see the script), so shorter is better. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/589

> We migrated our Docker Hub's repository from `loadimpact/k6` to [grafana/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/k6) ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We migrated our Docker Hub repository from `loadimpact/k6` to [grafana/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/k6) ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).
```

```

> We continue pushing the images to the `loadimpact/k6` for some time, but if you use it in your local or CI environments please plan the migration.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
We will continue to push `loadimpact/k6` images for some time, but if you use it in your local or CI environments please plan the migration.
```

It would be good to mention here the time frame we plan to continue to do so. Several versions, a few months...?

Author: We don't have a date defined, but it's better to attract attention because as far as I know the `loadimpact/k6` probably have some pull limitation :thinking:

Reviewer 7: I think any specifier would be better than an indeterminate "some time". Maybe "for several more releases"?

> We continue pushing the images to the `loadimpact/k6` for several more releases, but if you use it in your local or CI environments please plan the migration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We will continue publishing our docker image releases as both `loadimpact/k6` and `grafana/k6` for several more releases, but if you use the old one in your local or CI environments, please plan the migration.
```

## Enhancements and UX improvements

- We continued work on the source map feature: add samples ([#2339](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2339)) and improve loading and parsing ([#2355](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2355)).
- Updated installation from source instructions ([#2359](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2359)). Thanks, @[karitham](https://github.com/Karitham), for making the change.

> - Introduced a Go-based thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)).

Reviewer 6: > Introduced a Go-based thresholds parsing

Change to
> Introduced Go-based thresholds parsing

or

> Introduced a Go-based thresholds parser

> - Introduced a Go-based thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)).

Author: ```suggestion
- Introduced Go-based thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400)).
```

- Enabled more TC39 tests: [optional-chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) ([#2338](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2338)) and async ([#2396](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2396)).

> - We updated our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and actualized few GitHub URLs ([#2416](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2416)).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- We updated our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and a few GitHub URLs ([#2416](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2416)).
```

## Bugs fixed!

- [`http.head`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/head-url-params/) started taking a body as a second argument ([#2402](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2402)) by mistake in v0.36.0. It is now back to its old signature `http.head(url, [params])`.
- Fixed [options.scenarios'](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/options/#scenarios) JSON marshaling ([#2392](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2392)).
- Metrics' names display again in k6's Rest API ([#2421](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2421)).

> - We improved misconfiguration detection for [`check`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6/check-val-sets-tags)([#2387](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2387)), [`http.batch`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/batch-requests)([#2415](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2415)) and [metrics' constructors](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-metrics/)([#2427](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2427)).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- We improved misconfiguration detection for [`check`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6/check-val-sets-tags)([#2387](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2387)), [`http.batch`](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-http/batch-requests)([#2415](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2415)) and [metrics' constructors](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-metrics/) ([#2427](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2427)).
```

Reviewer 6: > We improved misconfiguration detection

Change to 

> We improved configuration validation

or

> We improved config validation

?

> 

Reviewer 4: Missing bugfix: https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2421

## Internals

> - We updated our CI to make a developer experience better. Dependency and linter checks run only for pull requests ([#2403](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2403)).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- We updated our CI to improve developer experience. Dependency and linter checks now run only for pull requests ([#2403](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2403)).
```

> - This release also contains a bunch of the refactoring PRs that fix linters errors ([#2334](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2334), [#2331](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2331) and [#2341](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2341)), remove global variables' usage ([#2336](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2336), [#2358](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2358), [#2353](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2353) and [#2357](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2357)) and remove unnecessary dependency ([#2313](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2313)) which makes our codebase more consistent and maintainable.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- This release also contains a few refactoring PRs that fix linters errors ([#2334](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2334), [#2331](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2331) and [#2341](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2341)), remove global variable usage ([#2336](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2336), [#2358](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2358), [#2353](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2353) and [#2357](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2357)) and remove an unnecessary dependency ([#2313](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2313)) which makes our codebase more consistent and maintainable.
```

> - The `headers`' parameter in k6's GRPC module marked as deprecated ([#2370](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2370)).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- The `headers` parameter in k6's GRPC module is marked as deprecated ([#2370](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2370)).
```

> - Switched `envconfig` to a fork ([#2337](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2337)) in order to abstract OS package and improve testability.

Reviewer 7: It's good to emphasize it's not some random fork :)

```suggestion
- Switched `envconfig` to our own fork ([#2337](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2337)) in order to abstract the `os` package and improve testability.
```

Author: `our own` it's @MStoykov 's fork :smile:

Reviewer 7: Yeah, but it's an internal one we maintain, not from an external maintainer.

Author: True

```sh
WARN[0000] Module 'k6/x/sql' is using deprecated APIs that will be removed in k6 v0.38.0, for more details on how to update it see https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension
```

We did migrations for some xk6 extensions (see connected issues to the task [#2344](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2344)). The pull requests can serve as examples on how to transition your extension to the new API.

### Docker Repository

We migrated our Docker Hub repository from `loadimpact/k6` to [grafana/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/k6) ([#2377](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2377)).

```sh
docker run -i grafana/k6 run - <script.js
```

We will continue publishing our docker image releases as both `loadimpact/k6` and `grafana/k6` for several more releases, but if you use the old one in your local or CI environments, please plan the migration.

## Breaking changes

### Introduced stricter thresholds parsing ([#2400](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2400))

> With this change k6 started to return an error message on thresholds that wouldn't have been evaluated correctly, instead of just silently ignoring them.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
In the past, thresholds were evaluated using a Javascript runtime. For a multitude of reasons, this wasn't satisfying. As of **v0.38.0**, thresholds are now parsed directly in Go. As a result, k6 will now return an error message on thresholds that do not strictly match [the documented specification](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/thresholds/), instead of just silently ignoring them. Another change is that when a non syntaxically correct threshold expression is detected, k6 will immediately interupt its execution before even starting the load test run.
```

Reviewer 2: we are releasing `0.37.0` not `0.38.0` ;)

Author: For the record, I've updated @oleiade 's comment in order to include it to a changes batch

Below you can find examples of the thresholds expressions that won't work anymore:

```js

> export let options = {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export const options = {
```

> export let options = {

Author: ```suggestion
export const options = {
```

            "rate=200",
            // thresholds do not support javascript expressions anymore
            "throw new Error('wat')",

>             // it fails when foo doesn't aggregate

Reviewer 8: I think it was more accurate before, but instead of metric, use method instead 😸 
`// it fails, as test is not a valid threshold expression's aggregation method keyword`

Author: ```suggestion
            // it fails, as foo is not a valid threshold expression's aggregation method keyword
```
